did you know that where the market
bottomed out in October was the exact
same time that all these tech companies
started to lay people off do you see the
connection in this video we're going to
talk about that we're going to look at
what's going on with the debt ceiling we
are going to explain everything you need
to know my name is David quintiri and I
have been looking into all of this
financial Wizardry and bringing it here
making it simple for everybody to learn
let's dig in right away first things
first almost 200 000 job Cuts in Tech
pushes new grads to Wall Street you're
seeing a lot of people saying hey I
wanted to go here I wanted to do this
but now guess what there isn't that uh
circumstance there for them they wanted
the high paying jobs they had the
education behind them but hey these
companies are firing people and they're
hiring people from overseas they're not
doing that for people that are in the
United States there's a lot of Chaos in
big Tech we're seeing a course
correction with a lot of firing but on
Wall Street treat you work really hard
you make a lot of money that's the deal
it really all depends of course because
a lot of these companies are also laying
people off but not to the degree that
we've seen with tech let me give you
some examples here
layoffs.fyi you've probably seen this
before they call it the layoffs tracker
it's 200
000 employees laid off and that's by the
way 2023 uh if you look at this go down
the list you see some of them that you
may recognize before and I just think
it's interesting because it isn't just
Tech but we are heavily uh slanted
towards that at this time you can see it
in chart form as well employees laid off
companies with the layoffs this is not
definitely not at the peak that we saw
before but we can look at it broadly and
realize that look a lot of these
companies are getting rid of people at
the same time guess what it's not just
the people they're getting rid of real
estate too companies like Microsoft
getting rid of entire are buildings why
what is happening here well of course
interest rates have been moving up the
cost to support those buildings have
been moving up a lot of people are
working from home now a lot of things
are getting outsourced companies are
saying we don't need this anymore we're
just going to Outsource this department
other companies are saying instead of
expansion that we planned let's do some
artificial intelligence let's bring in
some sort of automation where we do not
need to hire those people back that's
what's going on the worst circumstance
right now for commercial real estate
that we have seen in a long time since
the housing crisis potentially actually
this is worse than that circumstance
that's commercial real estate whether
that spills over into residential whole
different story commercial real estate
stay away I'm telling you look I'm going
to show you some other stuff what about
the debt ceiling what about personal
debt credit cards I got that information
check this out
first things first S P 500 margins are
back in that pre-2020 levels Rose
sequentially in the first quarter of
2023 I thought it was interesting just
to show us that we are well off the tops
that we saw back in 2021 when the market
was real hot okay
um when you just look at it and just
understand that a lot has been happening
over these years I get a little bit you
know tongue-tied because sometimes we're
looking at the year over year or we're
comparing it between 2020 and that was
an unusual circumstance but definitely
the margins are getting hit right now
because their costs are gone up you see
a lot of these companies their cost of
doing business you know their input
costs the wages that they've had to play
pay people the you know all their
supplies that they need everything costs
more money I know this myself just sent
the shipment in to Amazon where you're
looking at a thousand units for
a thousand units for let's say 315
dollars I believe it was where that
would have cost me through a different
method would have cost me so that was 30
cents a unit okay 30 cents a unit
previously that was costing me eight
cents a unit even less than that even
sometimes as much as four or six cents a
unit
and now it's it's crazy the difference
is crazy in terms of what they're
charging so everybody's getting hit
small businesses especially world's
richest man sees 11 billion dollars in
wealth wiped out right after the stock
route in European luxury goods this is
just one small example I thought it was
interesting just because you're seeing
it with the richest man in the world 11
billion dollars just imagine that what
that would feel like I mean somebody
loses a few bucks and then Ah that's
things but imagine just losing 11
billion doesn't matter how rich you are
11 billion that's got to hurt but the
point here is that things move rapidly
that's all I'm trying to say okay we're
not going to shed a tear for this guy
you can see uh right now this is uh the
UK and the rate at which inflation has
been picking up isn't isn't stopping
this is the CPI inflation excluding
energy food and alcohol and tobacco and
look at it you could see the same stats
in the U.S and Canada and elsewhere
where a lot of the cases it hasn't
stopped and I saw the title I think it
was the BBC that published it it says
why inflation is going down but prices
are still going up I mean that's how
backwards and ridiculous these inflation
indicators are inflation's going down
but prices are going up not
I mean
what do I say what do I say to that and
that's why when somebody tells you about
inflation just say wait a minute do you
know stuff that have gone down in price
do you no of course nothing goes down
that's a products and services so let's
cover the next aspect and that is debt
the first thing we can get the debt
dealing but I wanted to show you
personal that Americans far from maxed
out on credit card debt I thought it was
really telling to see that green line
which is credit card balances and then
you see the credit card limit which is
the red line and so people are not
spending up into the limits if you take
this overall what's available now isn't
that an interesting stat you see unlike
the government it seems that people are
not spending up to the limits of course
we know this is not to be true but I
just wanted to make light of this given
the circumstances of what we've seen
with the debt ceiling I just have a few
articles I just want to show you the
titles debt limit talks stall As Time
runs short to avert a U.S default their
fault on U.S debt risks permanently
denting the nation's credit rating I
actually disagree with that
that ceiling fight comes down to
spending freeze or cut and what they
actually said here was like where are we
going to pull this money from to keep
the government going and they said
absolutely not no way know-how cuts to
Social Security and Medicare programs
are off the table
instead funds for programs from
education to rail safety oh yeah Ohio
anyway to law enforcement not a good
idea in places like San Francisco and
others that are law in New York that are
completely Lawless could be cut you see
and then of course that's going to have
an impact on the economy as a whole and
so on I think this is a whole charade
that they're playing I know you think
the same thing but hey if you disagree
with me why don't you put it in the
comments below why this is actually
something real and we're not seeing the
World Wrestling Federation the soap
opera this is a little bit more like
Young and the Restless 90210 anybody I
mean what else could we say here it's
ridiculous this is a joke they're going
to spend more money they say they're
going to cut do you ever see the
military getting cut do you ever see
anything that you would consider
wasteful like spying on Americans the
NSA is that going to get cut not a
dollar will get cut even even the budget
will be increased on all of that yelling
my friend Janet Yellen
says the U.S almost certain to miss
early June payments unless the debt
limit is raised okay so I think we get
the point here there's a serious crisis
that's going on they're saying that any
way we have to wait and see what happens
what do you do though this article was
written basically suggesting like okay
we've got the debt limit or people are
scared what do we do well for some
people well this is what they're
suggesting consider making slow changes
to your asset allocation in terms of
adding some alternative assets like gold
and Bitcoin generally stocks and bonds
have been tried and true over many
decades it you know you can see that
what is it exactly that they're thinking
about and here and the whole point is to
have diversification we don't really
know the situation because it's just
been really really difficult at this
time the disruption will be there nobody
knows about you know what's going to
come tomorrow
but essentially having money in
different places different avenues that
you know would be safer and you know
more balanced that's the whole point I
think for a lot of people they're going
to not do anything and hope for the best
that's one way to deal with it certainly
but I think we should be already
prepared because look let's let's be
let's look at this you got that ceiling
crisis today you got a stock market
crisis tomorrow you got commercial real
estate next week you've got something
happening in Europe the week after oil
is doing this every day every week
There's Something there's always
something so if we're just dumping our
money into our 401k
blindly that is not a wise decision and
yet that's the vast majority of people
well you know my employer matches is
that is that the only reason
I mean come on we got to be smarter
about this thing here and we got it
really take advantage of the knowledge
that we have or hopefully are
accumulating I hope you appreciate this
information and I'll see you tomorrow
take care